The Joe Rogan experience.
It's a,
it's a strange time when it comes to the reality of the differences between
genders. It's a very strange time because it doesn't, it doesn't like,
no one's ever said like men are better than women or women are better than men.
We're just different things. And transgender people are different as well.
It's all, we're all just different.
We should be accepting of each other and loving of each other and give each
other equal rights and laws and, and respect.
But when it comes to athletics is a reason why men don't compete against women.
And I had this bizarre conversation with this guy once who has this TV show,
where he kind of debunks things.
But when I got them alone to talk about these things without a team of writers,
when you leave someone to just their opinions and he had
these sort of very progressive talking points that he would kind of blurred out.
But then when I started challenging him on these and going deep,
you realize like he didn't really think about this.
He just wanted a peer that he was progressive, which I am.
I am a progressive person. I know I look like a meathead,
but I'm very progressive. I just look at reality though.
I grew up with martial arts and with fighting,
and I know there's a radical difference between males and females. It's radical.
It's not, it's not small. It's not subtle. It's radical.
When your physical strength, physical.
Strength in violence and psychology and attitude.
And in competitiveness, it's radical.
There's a radical difference.
And also there's a spectrum and some people are far more feminine
than they are masculine and they happen to have penises.
And some women are far more masculine than there are feminine.
They have to have vaginas, but it doesn't change the norm.
It doesn't change.
And it certainly doesn't change on the high ends of the spectrums.
That's really the high ends of the spectrum.
So it's ultra female versus ultra male.
You're looking at two radically different things.
Yeah. Yeah. And I like really like what you said about,
I am getting emotional again. Um,
I like what you said about just accepting and understanding each other.
That to me, you don't have to accept bad behavior.
You don't have to accept hurtful behavior,
but it does help us to really work hard to understand it. So,
and those are the extremes of behavior. Um, but you're right. We're different.
And I think it's interesting and it's exciting the way that we're different,
the ways that we're different and testosterone really does help to explain so
many of those differences.
So understanding that hormone helps us understand each other. And I wanted,
it helped me,
even though I have been teaching about this stuff for ages writing the book and
especially reading about the transgender experience has helped me to
have sort of this apifany so you can see how emotional I am, right?
I'm like ultra emotional.
My husband is a British philosopher and he is
not, uh, he doesn't get angry.
He doesn't really express a lot,
a huge range of emotion. He's a wonderful guy and I love him,
but I've always kind of picked on him and thought there was something wrong with
him for not being more emotional,
not being able to have these long conversations about emotions and
psychology and what, and what happened in his childhood to make him like that.
And I have a temper, he doesn't have a temper,
I can cry during lecture and can't even, and cry at home. And, you know,
can barely control that my epiphany was,
I'm not better than he is because I'm so in touch with my emotions.
I have issues like he probably has issues too,
but he doesn't have to come to be closer to me in my way of being in the
world.
I need to work on accepting who he is. He's an awesome guy.
And I was always trying to get him to be more like me.
And I think women really want men if they're in
heterosexual relationships, um, to be more like them emotionally,
but I had this epiphany, like no it's working out and,
and our marriage would be better if I just shut up about some of the,
getting him to be more emotional all the time.
I need to take the gifts that he's giving me.
And I have to look at myself and where my emotionality, which I'm, you know,
getting emotional again. Um, but that was all through learning about like,
learning more about this hormone and what it does. It's just who he is as a man.
It's not that all men are that way. Right. But it did help me.
Just the understanding helps us to accept each other.
And that's sort of one larger point in the book that I don't try to make so
explicitly, but I hope that, um, and again,
I don't mean we have to accept bad behavior,
but we can try to understand these extremes of male behavior that are disturbing
and more disturbing than extremes of female behavior. You know,
I can cry and have a fit, but I'm not raping anybody. Um,
well, because that's an extreme of,
that's a bad extreme of male behavior that we need to understand,
but let's understand where that's coming from.
Instead of shutting down the conversation or shaming men for just being men who
are all men are being blamed for the extremes of male behavior,
they that's ridiculous. In my view.
To new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.